#summary These modification will add an additional input field to your Libstats installation
#labels Featured
=Add Field/Column input type to Libstats=
(Based on outline and support from Erin - Thanks, Erin!) Tested on version 1.0.6 - not verified for 1.0.5.
These instructions use “read” as a type.  This is for adding the [http://bkarrgerlich.googlepages.com/ READ scale]. You can substitute any name for "read" – just be consistent.
----
=WARNING=
These modification include core components of libstats.  You should back up your database and all files before attempting these changes.  It is strongly suggested that you try this on a test installation and not a production install.
----
==Database modifications==
These modifications can be done in phpMyAdmin.

  # Select patron_types table and under operations tab copy table to read_types (structure and data).
  # Do the same with library_patron_types.
  # For both read_types and library_read_types, edit fields replacing ‘patron’ with ‘read’.
  # Modify question table: add read_type_id after patron_type_id with same attributes (int(11) unsigned NULL default=0)
  # Modify admin table: Insert read types following patron types model

==Action Folder==
  # Modify HelpAction*.php - insert at line 69
{{{
$result['descRead'] =
   $helpFinder->getReadOptions($library_id_post);
}}}
  # Duplicate LibraryPatronTypeAction.php and rename LibraryReadTypeAction.php
    * Edit, changing ‘patron’ instances to ‘read’ 
    * NOTE: (be sure to match case.) and change $ptf instances to $rtf. ($rtf -in this case - represents read type finder) any other value can be used, it just needs to be consistent throughout as this string exists in several files.
  # Duplicate PatronTypeAddAction.php and rename to  ReadTypeAddAction.php repeat above edits.
  #  Modify QuestionEditAction.php - insert at LINE 36
{{{
$qHash['read_type_id'] = gpwd('readType', null);
}}}
  # Modify QuestionEditFormAction.php: insert:
    * LINE 35:
{{{
$rtf = new ReadTypeFinder($db);
}}}
    * LINE 45
{{{
$result['readTypeOpts'] = $rtf->findByLibrary($libId);
}}}
  # Modify QuestionAddAction.php - insert LINE 24:
{{{
$qHash['read_type_id'] = gpwd('readType', null);
}}}
  # Modify QuestionAddFormAction.php - insert: 
    * LINE 36
{{{
$rtf = new ReadTypeFinder($db);
}}}
    * LINE 55
{{{
$result['readTypeOpts'] = $rtf->findByLibrary($libId);
}}}
    * LINES 77-9
{{{
$start = mTimeFloat();
$result['lastReadType'] = $rtf->getLast($clientIp);
$times['lastReadType'] = mTimeFloat() - $start;
}}}
==Content Folder==
  # In Admin folder: Modify Help.php - insert:
    * LINE 15-8
{{{
$descReadArray = $rInfo['descRead'];
if(!isset($descReadArray)){
$descReadArray = 0;
}
}}}
    * LINES 74-93
{{{
if ($rInfo['help_id'] == 4 && $descReadArray != 0){
	echo('<br /><h3>Options: </h3>');
	echo('<ul>');
	foreach($descReadArray as $choice){
		echo ('<li>' . $choice['read_type']);
			if (strlen($choice['description']) > 2){
				echo('---' . $choice['description'] . '</li>');
			} else {
				echo('</li>');
			}
			if (strlen($choice['examples']) > 2){
				echo('<br /><ul>
						<li>Examples: ' . $choice['examples'] . '</li>
					  </ul><br />');
			} else {
				continue;
			}
	}
	echo('</ul>');
}
}}}
  # Modify QuestionAddForm.php to encompass another input
    * LINES 36-44
{{{
<div class = "inputBox">
    <h5><a href="help.do?advice=4" class="helpLink=">READ Scale</a></h5>
    <?php echo($optionFunction(
        'readType',
        $rInfo['readTypeOpts'],
        'read_type_id',
        'read_type', 
        $rInfo['lastReadType'], 5)); ?>
</div>
}}}
  # Modify QuestionEditForm.php similar to the above
    * LINES 55-64
{{{
    <div class = "inputBox">
        <h5>Time Spent</h5>
        <?php echo( $optionFunction(
            'timeSpent',
            $rInfo['timeSpentOpts'],
            'time_spent_id',
            'time_spent',
            $rInfo['question']['time_spent_id'], 5)
            ); ?>
    </div>
}}}
==Root Folder==
  # Modify ControllerFunctions.php
    * LINE 96:
{{{
'libraryReadType.do' => new LibraryReadTypeAction(),
}}}
== Finders Folder ==
  # In QuestionFinder.php - add
    * LINES 27-8
{{{
        questions.read_type_id,
        read_types.read_type,
}}}
    * LINES 52-3
{{{
    LEFT JOIN read_types ON 
        (questions.read_type_id = read_types.read_type_id)
}}}
  # Modify HelpFinder.php –insert
    * LINES 41-53
{{{
	//Locate field option descriptions--patron_type
	function getReadOptions($library_id){
		$fullQuery =
		"SELECT *
		FROM `read_types`
		LEFT JOIN (library_read_types) ON
			(read_types.read_type_id = library_read_types.read_type_id)
		WHERE library_read_types.library_id = ?
		ORDER BY list_order";
		
		$result = $this->db->getAll($fullQuery, array($library_id));
		return $result;
	}
}}}
== Reports Folder ==
  # Modify DataCSVReport.php – insert:
    * LINE 35:
{{{
		read_types.read_type,
}}}
    * LINE 59:
{{{
		JOIN read_types ON questions.read_type_id = read_types.read_type_id
}}}
  # Duplicate reports>ByPatronType.php & rename ByReadType.php
    * Replace all instances of “Patron/patron” with “Read/read” (watch case.)

In addition, make these modifications (thanks to cgrimland for catching this):

  # LINES 27-32:
{{{
    $fullQuery = "SELECT COUNT(questions.question) as questions, read_types.read_type
as readtypes
                        FROM questions
                        JOIN read_types ON
                        (questions.read_type_id = read_types.read_type_id)
                        $sql
                        GROUP BY readtypes";
}}}
   # LINE 74:
{{{
<td>{$report["readtypes"]}</td>
}}}
----